# NAME

OnApp::API - Perlish interface to OnApp API

# SYNOPSIS

    use OnApp::API;
    my $vm = OnAPP::API->(
           api_email => $email,
	 api_key   => $key,
	 api_url   => $url,
    );

    my $hashOfVms = $vm->getVMs();

    my $response = $vm->createVM(
          cpus    => 1, 
          cpu_shares => 2, 
          Hostname => "avitest",
          label => "avi testing",
          primary_disk_size => 8, 
          swap_disk_size => 1, 
          rate_limit => 100,
          admin_note => "do-wop",
          Note => "doo-wop",
          template_id => $templateID,
    );



Each of the `create` methods returns a hashref containing some useful data, but
no real information. Keys are:

- `status_code` => HTTP numerical status code
- `status` => HTTP standard description for the HTTP status code
- `status_description` => OnApp's explanation of the HTTP status code.
- `requested_url` => The URL requested
- `json` => The JSON sent
- `response_objct` => The response object as returned by the `LWP::UserAgent` object 
used to POST the data.

# CONSTRUCTOR AND STARTUP

### new()

Creates and returns an OnApp::API object. Expects authentication and endpoint details:

    my $vm = OnApp::API->new)
          api_email => "name@domain.com",
          api_key	  => "supersecretkey",
          api_url   => "url.of.the.onapp.box",
    );

You can, if you prefer, supply `api_email` with a web UI username and `api_key` with a web UI password.

# METHODS

## Users

### getUsers()

Returns a reference to a hash-of-hashes whose keys are the usernames of the users:

### createUser()

Creates a user based on the hashref it's passed. 

Mandatory fields:

- `email` => user’s email address
- `first_name` => user’s first name
- `last_name` => user’s last name
- `login` => login of the user. It can consist of 4-40 characters, letters [A-Za-z], digits [0-9], dash [ - ], lower dash [ _ ], [@]. You can use both lower- and uppercase letters
- `password` => user’s password. (min – 6 characters)
- `password_confirmation` => confirmation of the password (retype the password)

If `password_confirmaton` is not passed, it is automatically set to the value of `password`. If it is 
passed and is empty, it will be passed to OnApp as such and you'll probably get an error in return.

Optional fields:

- `role` => assigns a role to a user
- `time_zone` => time zone of the user. Set by default
- `locale` => local of the user. Set by default
- `status` => user’s status (active, suspended, etc)
- `billing_plan_id` => set by default, if not selected
- `role_ids` => ID of the role, assigned to the user
- `user_group_id` => ID of the group, to which the user is attached
- `suspend_after_hours` => time in hours, after which the user will be suspended
- `suspend_at` => time in [YYYY][MM][DD] T[hh][mm][ss]Z format, when the user will be suspended

## VMs

### getVMs()

Returns a reference to a hash-of-hashes whose keys are the hostnames of the VMs:

    my $vms = $vm->getVMs;

    $vms->{'hostname'}

### createVM();

Creates a virtual machine according to the parameters in the hashref passed as an argument. Items
with asterisks are mandatory, wording below is essentially verbatim from the API docs.

There's some stupid capitalisation going on in the docs - everything must be lower case.

I've set three defaults:

    required_automatic_backup => "0",
    required_ip_address_assignment => "1",
    required_virtual_machine_build => "1",

Mandatory fields:

- `cpus` => Number of CPUs assigned to the VM.
- `cpu_shares` => Set CPU priority for this VM.
- `hostname` => Set the host name for this VM.
- `label` => User-friendly VM description.
- `primary_disk_size` => Set the disk space for this VM. in GB.
- `swap_disk_size` => Set swap space. There is no swap disk for Windows-based VMs.
- `required_ip_address_assignment` => Set 1 if you wish the system to assign an IP automatically
- `required_virtual_machine_build` => Set 1 to build VM automatically
- `template_id` => The ID of a template from which a VM should be built

Optional fields:

- `primary_network_id` => The ID of the primary network. Optional parameter.
- `required_automatic_backup` => Set 1 if you need automatic backups.
- `rate_limit` => Set max port speed. Optional parameter: if none set, the system sets port speed to unlimited.
- `admin_note` => Enter a brief comment for the VM. Optional parameter.
- `note` => A brief comment a user can add to a VM.
- `hypervisor_group_id` => The ID of the hypervisor zone in which the VM will be created. Optional: if no hypervisor zone is set, the VM will  be built in any available hypervisor zone.
- `hypervisor_id` => The ID of a hypervisor where the VM will be built.
- `initial_root_password` => Root password. [\w\-\_]{6,32} created if not supplied

## TEMPLATES

### getTemplates()

Returns a hashref describing the templates. This is a hash-of-hashes, where the keys
are the ID of the template described in the constituent hashes.

# PRIVATE METHODS

Don't use these.

### _tidyData()

Makes the data structure more sane. The API, when passed through `JSON::decode_json()`, 
produces an array of hashrefs. Each of those hashes itself contains a single hashref
describing the elements being returned.

This takes that structure and rearranges it into a single hash of hashrefs. The keys of
the parent hash are the value of a single key from each of the constituent hashes, defined 
by the scond parameter to `tidyData`:

    $ref $self->tidyData($ref, "hostname");

will rearrange the $ref structure such that 

    keys(%{ $ref });

will return a list of hostnames.

### _applyFilter(), _applyAndFilter(), _applyOrFilter()

This is currently not used. It seems a bit pointless trying to provide a
generic filter here when it might as well be done outside of the module
in a more specific way, or by the API itself (which it isn't).

_applyFilter is passed two hashrefs:

    data:      some data to filter
    andFilter: a set of filtering criteria

It calls _applyAndFilter (and will, in the future, call _applyOrFilter)
to do the filtering. Currently, it's a bit crude. The expectation is that
`data` will be a hash of hashes. Each of its constituent hashes is kept if, 
and only if, each of its keys mentioned in `andFilter` case-insensitively
matches the corresponding value in `andFilter`

### _getRef()

Given a full URL (as returned by `_getURL` ), returns a hashref containing
The data.

### _postJson()

    $self->_postJson( $hashref, $url, $containerName);

Given a hashref, passes it to _makeJson to JSONify it and them POSTs it
to the relevant API URL

### _explainStatusCode

    $self->_explainStatusCode($HTTPStatusCode);

Given an HTTP status code, returns OnApp's explanation of why it would return it. Text is from
the FAQ of the API guide:

- 200 => "The request completed successfully",
- 201 => "Scheduled The request has been accepted and scheduled for processing",
- 403 => "Forbidden The request is correct, but could not be processed.",
- 404 => "The requested URL is incorrect or the resource does not exist. For example, if you request to delete a user with ID {5}, but there is no such a user in the cloud, you will get a 404 error.",
- 422 => "The sent parameters are erroneous.",
- 500 => "An error occurred. Please contact support.",

### _makeJson()

Given a hashref, creates some JSON for passing to OnApp.

### _getUrl()
Used to create URLs from easy-to-remember names. For example, to get
the correct URL for the API to return a list of users, you can do

    $self->_getURL("get", "users");

These URLs are then passed to `_getRef`.

### _getHash()

Deprecated already, in favour of `_getRef`. 'cause references are cool.

# SEE ALSO

[http://cdn.onapp.com/files/docs/onapp_cloud_2-3_api_guide_v1-3.pdf](http://cdn.onapp.com/files/docs/onapp_cloud_2-3_api_guide_v1-3.pdf)

# COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2011 Avi Greenbury (bigreds)

All right reserved. This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify 
it under the same terms as Perl itself or, at your option, under the BSD license.

# AUTHOR
  bigreds (Avi Greenbury) bigreds@cpan.org